Let's now look at what happens when a Problem Task is assigned to your group.
We're starting this scenario logged in as a Problem Manager.
As you can see,
the Problem is in the Root Cause Analysis state.
And here on the Problem Tasks tab,
we can see that the Problem Manager has created a Root Cause Analysis Task
and assigned it to the relevant support group.
Let's now log in as a member of that assignment group and pick up the task.
Head to the Tasks list and select "Assigned to your group".
Here you'll find any assigned Problem Tasks in your team's queue,
alongside other task types,
like Incidents or Service Catalog Tasks.
Review the task details in the Short Description and Description fields.
To take ownership of the task,
click "Assign to me".
This populates your name in the Assigned To field.
When you're ready to begin,
click "Start work",
to move the task to Work in Progress.
You can easily navigate to the parent problem record
by clicking the info button on the Problem field.
Then choosing "Open Record".
The record opens in a new tab within the workspace.
From here,
you can view the full details of the Problem,
as well as the previous activity on the record.
You can also check the Related Records tab to see any related Incidents,
and the Affected Configuration Items and Service Offerings
to get a better understanding of the issue you're investigating.
Let's head back to the Problem Task.
As you work the Root Cause Analysis task,
you can record your findings in the Analysis Information section of the form.
Select the Cause Code that best reflects what you've identified so far.
This doesn't need to be perfect.
It should simply represent the most likely cause
based on the evidence available at this point.
In the Cause Notes field,
document your observations in clear factual detail.
Focus on what you reviewed,
what you observed,
and any patterns or conditions that stood out.
This helps the Problem Manager understand your
findings without needing to retrace your steps.
In the Proposed Fix Notes field,
capture any suggested next steps.
This might be a potential fix,
a recommendation for further investigation,
or an idea that should be evaluated through Change.
You're not committing to a solution here --
you're sharing insight to support the next decision.
If you identify a new or improved workaround while investigating,
you can document it in the Workaround field.
This is especially helpful if Incidents are still occurring
or are waiting on the Problem for guidance.
Once you've entered your notes,
click "Complete" to close the task.
In the modal window,
you can review and finalize your notes,
if needed,
before clicking "Submit" to save your changes and mark the task Complete.